Jagadisha Siddaiah
Devops Engineer
jagdish14267@gmail.com 	09611814267 	Bengaluru
linkedin.com/in/jagadisha-siddaiah08-009aba125
Professional Experience
As an enthusiastic candidate, I am looking for DevOps Engineer and AWS and Azure Cloud Engineer role. Overall
Experience of 8 years in production, Assistant customer service manager and Devops Engineer. Passionate about
leveraging Cloud and DevOps technologies to drive automation, scalability, and efficiency in modern software
delivery pipelines. Skilled in cloud infrastructure provisioning, CI/CD pipeline integration, and containerized
deployments using tools like AWS, Terraform, Jenkins, java, Docker, and Kubernetes. Continuously exploring
innovative solutions to optimize workflows and ensure reliable, secure, and cost-effective deployments.
Work Experience
Devops Engineer 	2021 – 2025 | Berlin, Germany
Experience in source code version controlling using Git, GitHub.
Create CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins.
Containerization using Docker, Containerization orchestration using EKS and Kubernetes.
monitoring various servers and network infrastructure using Cloud Watch Promotheus and Grafana.
Managing resources using infrastructure as Code using Terraform in Linux environment.
Hands-on using various AWS Services like EC2, S3, SNS, IAM, VPC, RDS, Cloud Front, Application Load balancer,
Route 53, EBS, EFS, Cloud Watch, Cloud Trail, Knowledge on Microservices lambda.
Administering users, groups and setting up of policies by using IAM. Worked on S3 bucket like version control, Life
cycle management.
Tailoring, developing and maintaining configuration management system, manage repositories, branches, tags
using GIT.
Assistant production Manager 	2019 – 2021 | Berlin, Germany
Inspected equipment to verify performance and functionality, wear and tear.
supported product needs by performing routine Tasks using standard procedures and equipment.
spoke intelegently and enthusiatically regarding current production line to sort out the issue.
Assistant Customer Service Manager 	2018 – 2019 | Berlin, Germany
Mentained Customer satisfaction with forward thinking strategies focused on addressing customer needs and
resolving concern.
Answer constant flow of customer calls with minimal wait times.
Offered advice and assistance to customers attention to special needs or wants.
Projects
Deploying a Complete CI/CD 	01/2024 – 08/2024
Proficient in building and automating CI/CD pipelines with tools and technologies such as Terraform, Jenkins,
Docker, and Kubernetes.
Infrastructure Provisioning: Automated the creation of AWS EC2 instances using Terraform, configured with user
data scripts, custom security groups, and optimized root volumes.
Jenkins Setup and Configuration: Installed Jenkins on Ubuntu, configured Java dependencies, set hostname, and
integrated plugins for Docker, Kubernetes, and Maven to enable seamless pipeline execution.
Security and Compliance: Installed and configured Trivy for container image scanning to ensure compliance and
vulnerability detection.
AWS, Kubectl, and Terraform Management: Installed and configured AWS CLI, kubectl, and Terraform for
infrastructure management, Kubernetes control, and EKS provisioning.

-- 1 of 2 --

IAM Role Creation: Created and managed EKS-specific IAM roles with required policies, including administrative
access and EC2 full access.
Delivered end-to-end CI/CD pipelines for automated build, test, and deployment processes in highly scalable cloud
environments.
Cloud Cost Optimization ??? AWS 	08/2023 – 03/2023
Implemented cost optimization strategies on AWS platform, resulting in a 15% reduction in overall cloud spending.
Implemented Lambda function that fetches all EBS snapshots owned by the same account ('self') and also retrieves
a list of active EC2 instances (running and stopped).
For each snapshot, it checks if the associated volume (if exists) is not associated with any active instance. If it finds a
stale snapshot, it deletes it, effectively optimizing storage costs
Conducted thorough analysis of cloud usage and expenses, leading to the identification of cost-saving
opportunities.
Collaborated with cross-functional teams to devise and implement efficient cloud resource utilization practices,
contributing to significant cost savings.
Skills
DevOps Tools: Kubernetes, Docker, Jenkins, Terraform, Helm, Linux OS Cloud Platforms: AWS (EC2, VPC, Cloud
watch, S3, Lambda, IAM, EBS, Route 53, Load Balancing, Auto scaling ) Programming & Scripting: Java (Beginner),
Bash, Shell scripting, YAML Software Engineering & Methodologies: SDLC (Agile, Waterfall, V-Model), STLC, ALM,
UML diagrams Operating Systems & Tools: Windows, Linux, Nginx, Apache, Prometheus, Grafana Soft Skills:
Communication, Client interaction, Requirement gathering, Team collaboration
Courses
AWS Solution Architect
Devops Engineer
Education
M.S. in Industrial Engineering, bbw university of Applied Sciences 	04/2018 – 04/2021 | Berlin, Germany

-- 2 of 2 --

