Public
MURALI KUMAR S
E-mail:muralikumars302@gmail.com Mobile: +91-9113678879
Career Objective:
To take a challenging role as AWS Cloud Engineer and implement an efficient &
effective solution that would help the organization to achieve the best solution and also to excel
in all my endeavors thereby enabling growth of my colleagues, team members and the
organization at large.
Career Interest: AWS Cloud and DevOps configuration management which includes Project
setup, AWS EC2 cloud, VPC setup and, Build Automation, Continuous Integration, SCM
process improvements.
Employment Records:
o Workin as a Executive – System and Network Admin Spectrum Talent Management under the client GPS
Renewables PVT LTD.(June-2024 to Feb-2025)
o Worked as System Admin in VK Computers Worked under the client of GPS Renewables PVT LTD.(July-2023 to May-2024)
o Worked as a Network admin in ExperisIT worked under the client of Telstra, Bangalore.(June-2019 to DEC-2019)
o Worked as Senior Analyst in TrueBlue Pvt, worked under the client of DEll, Bangalore.(May-2017 to May-2019)
Professional Summary:
❖ Experience in Amazon Web Services like EC2, VPC, S3, IAM, ELB, RDS, Route 53, Auto Scaling and
Cloud Watch.
❖ Utilized Cloud Watch to monitor resources such as EC2, CPU memory, Amazon RDS DB services, EBS
volumes; to set alarms for notification or automated actions and to monitor logs for a better
understanding and operation of the system.
❖ Managing AWS instances via monitoring tool and action the alerts accordingly.
❖ Managing multiple AWS accounts with multiple VPC’s for both production and non-production.
❖ Configuring and managing Load balancer.
❖ Configuring and managing S3 storage.
❖ Creating AMI images of the critical EC2 instances as backup using GUI.
❖ Led the migration of application to AWS, improving scalability and performance.
❖ Developed APIs for integration with third-party services.
❖ Collaborated with security specialists to achieve application accreditation in a cloud environment,
strengthening data protection.
❖ Designed infrastructure for disaster recovery and backup strategies, enhancing system reliability.
❖ Optimized cloud resource allocation, resulting in reduced latency and enhanced user satisfaction.
❖ Designed and implemented a new application in an AWS environment, which become the standard
for over 1000 users.

-- 1 of 2 --

Public
STRENGTHS:
Cloud Solutions - Successfully migrated 3 enterprise application to AWS, resulting in cost savings.
Team collaboration - Collaborated with cross-functional teams to deliver tailored cloud
solutions.
ACHIEVEMENTS:
AWS Migration - Led a major migration project that transformed legacy system to AWS,
enhancing system performance .
Continuous Learning - Regularly attend workshops to stay updated with the latest in software
development and cloud solutions.
Projects:
❑ Deploy a Static Website using S3 and Cloudfront.
❑ Setting up VPC with Public/private subnets.
❑ Build a Serverless REST API using AWS Lambda + API Gateway + DynamoDB.
EDUCATION:
❑ Bachelor of Commerce from C.C.S University Meerut 2019/2022 with 74%.
❑ Diploma in Electronics and Communication from DTE University in 2008/2011 with 60%.
❑ 10th from JHS School-Bangalore 2008 with 58%.
DECLARATION:
I hereby declare that the information above is true to the best of my knowledge.
Place:
Date: MURALI KUMAR S

-- 2 of 2 --

