Noor Basha
Devops Engineer | AWS | CI/CD | Container |Kubernetes | IAC
noorcloud92@gmail.com | +91 8050470156
Professional Summary
=
DevOps Engineer with 4+ years of experience designing, automating, and optimizing AWS cloud infrastructure and CI/CD
pipelines. Skilled in Docker-based containerization with exposure to Kubernetes, Infrastructure as Code (Terraform), and
implementing secure, scalable, and cost-efficient solutions. Proven track record in improving observability, accelerating
releases, and collaborating in agile environments to deliver high-quality software.
Skills
Cloud Platform: AWS
Infrastructure as Code (IaC): Terraform
Containerization & Orchestration: Docker, Kubernetes (EKS)
CI/CD Tools: GitLab, GitHub Actions
Observability & Monitoring: Prometheus, Grafana, Cloud Watch
Version Control: Git, Gitlab
Scripting & Automation: PowerShell, Bash
Operating Systems: Linux, Windows
Work Experience
Capgemini Technology | Senior Software Engineer (DevOps) May 2025 – Present
❖ Experience with spring boot framework for developing Java-based micro services.
❖ Infrastructure Patch management for all windows/Linux/Ubuntu servers using Ansible.
❖ Developed shell scripts for automating node health checks, monitoring CPU, memory, and other critical metrics,
ensuring system stability.
❖ Developing and maintaining the continuous integration and deployment pipelines using Jenkins, Git, Maven, nexus
❖ Collaborated with developers to optimize code repositories, resulting in faster code retrieval and collaboration.
Rackspace Technology Private Ltd | Software Engineer (DevOps) Dec 2020 - May 2025
❖ Designed and implemented secure, highly available AWS infrastructure using Terraform, leveraging ECS (Fargate &
EC2), EKS, Load Balancer (ALB), CloudWatch, Lambda, API Gateway, VPC, IAM, and other AWS services,
ensuring scalability and security compliance.
❖ Developed reusable Terraform modules for multi-environment provisioning (dev, test, prod) with Terraform Cloud,
implemented automated infrastructure testing using Terratest to ensure reliability and compliance.
❖ Built and optimized CI/CD pipelines in GitLab, integrating automated testing, SAST/DAST scans, and zero-downtime
deployments, reducing release times by 30%.
❖ Managed containerized applications with Docker and deployed on AWS ECS, ensuring high availability, resilience,
and implementing centralized logging and monitoring using CloudWatch.
❖ Deployed and orchestrated workloads on Kubernetes (EKS), implementing RBAC for secure access control and
enhancing observability using Prometheus and Grafana for monitoring and alerting.
❖ Reduced cloud costs by 20% through right-sizing, workload consolidation, and provisioning optimizations.
❖ Collaborated in Agile/Scrum teams, accelerating release cycles and improving delivery quality.
❖ Develop Terraform modules - EFS, ELB, ASG, S3, Network (VPC, IGW,RT,SUBNET,SG,NAT,Endpoint), GI Pipeline
❖ Develop Ansible Roles & playbook - Configure Jenkins Master, Harden the GI, Patch the OS of Jenkins Master

-- 1 of 2 --

❖ Develop Packer module - Jenkins GI
❖ Develop shell script - Configure GI slave, automate GI build steps, automate Jenkins backup
❖ Develop Jenkinsfile - Build GI Pipeline & Scan it, Backup of Jenkins Master
❖ Rolling out newer version of Jenkins once in 1 or 3 months
❖ Upgrading/Scaling Jenkins Master for capacity
❖ Set & Scan the server for vulnerabilities, based on the reports we accordingly harden the AMI or update Ansible
Roles
❖ Automated health checks, log monitoring, and performance tracking with Bash and PowerShell scripts, improving
incident detection speed by 40%.
❖ Defined and enforced Git branching strategies (GitFlow) and merge request workflows, improving code quality and
reducing merge conflicts.
Management Trainee | Genpact India Private Ltd June 2016 to July 2017
❖ Define project requirements by identifying project milestones, phases and elements; forming project team;
establishing project budget
❖ Contribute to team effort by accomplishing related results as needed
❖ Conduct insightful, ad hoc analyses to investigate ongoing or one-time operational issues.
Iron Mountain Private | Senior Associate April 2012 to Dec 2015
❖ Extracting the bank statements from JP Morgan site, sending them to the debt collectors and Regional credit managers
❖ Managing the AR accounts and following up with customers for any outstanding invoices.
❖ Create the current month's production invoice for SENA for the prior month's production and get accountants to update
the actual production details.
❖ Extract pipeline invoices, shipper statements, and cash-out prices to be circulated to the accountants.
Education
Bangalore University
Bachelor of Business Management – KLE’s Nijalingappa College – 2008

-- 2 of 2 --

